# CSC2530 Project

## File Structure
* ```data/``` - the data collected from the real-world experiments. (Not uploaded to GitHub due to size, see below.)
* ```misc/``` - old scripts and notebooks used for data collection and analysis.
* ```plot_imgs/``` - images used in the report.
* ```pointnerf/``` - code from the [official Point-NeRF Implementation](https://github.com/Xharlie/pointnerf). Some of the code is modified to run our experiments.
* ```pointnerf/checkpoints/``` - checkpointed run data from the experiments. (Not uploaded to GitHub due to size, see below.)
* ```pointnerf/data_src/``` - processed data used to train the Point-NeRF model. (Not uploaded to GitHub due to size, see below.)
* ```pointnerf/scripts/``` - scripts to run our experiments.
* ```multiway_reg.py``` - code to run the multiway registration.
* ```plot.ipynb``` - notebook to plot the results shown in the report.
* ```pose_bear.ipynb``` - (main code) notebook to run the pose estimation on the bear scene. Contains COLMAP pose processing, checkerboard pose processing, image preprocessing, point cloud preprocessing, and multiway registration.
* ```process_bag.py``` - code to process the rosbag files generated by the Intel RealSense D435 Depth Camera. 
* ```utils.py``` - utility functions used in the notebooks.

## Data
The collected data is available at this [Google Drive Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GoUAKg_cYg8mOlF4c6UzspSZBblQxR9W/view?usp=sharing). Unzip and leave the "data" folder in this directory.

The checkpointed data from the experiments are available at this [Google Drive Link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12V81zXsEQGoPJjw1pRJ4FXC-id6qfmXd/view?usp=sharing). Unzip and move the "checkpoints" and "data_src" folders to the ```pointnerf/``` directory.

## Libraries required
Run:
```pip install -r requirements.txt```
and follow the next section to setup Point-NeRF.

## Setup Point-NeRF
Follow the setup required in [official Point-NeRF Implementation](https://github.com/Xharlie/pointnerf).

The scripts to run our experiments are under ```pointnerf/scripts```:

* ```bash bear.sh``` - runs the bear scene using MVSNet.
* ```bash real_bear.sh``` - runs the bear scene using depth sensor initialized pointcloud.
* ```bash books.sh``` - runs the books scene using MVSNet.
* ```bash real_books.sh``` - runs the books scene using depth sensor initialized pointcloud.


## Note on running Point-NeRF experiments
The code on this repository is built on top of the [official Point-NeRF Implementation](https://github.com/Xharlie/pointnerf), which was built using [PyCUDA](https://wiki.tiker.net/PyCuda/Installation/), which is not up to date and is difficult to set up. Here are my setup details which is able to run:
* Ubuntu 22.04.2 LTS (64-bit)
* NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3060 Ti (8GB VRAM)
* NVIDIA-SMI 515.105.01
* Driver Version: 515.105.01
* CUDA Version: 11.7
* NVIDIA Cuda Compiler (nvcc) V11.7.64

